well Israel says it has killed one of
the Hamas commanders that it targeted in
an attack on a humanitarian Zone in Gaza
on Saturday he was Rafa Salamar
commander of the KH unun Brigade of the
militant group Hamas which carried out
the October 7th Terror attacks the Hamas
run Gaza health authority says at least
90 Palestinians were also killed and
hundreds more injured in the Israeli air
strikes many of the casualties were
Sheltering in a designated safe Zone
near hunas
Scott Anderson from the UN Agency for
Palestinian refugees in Gaza anra was at
Nasa hospital where casualties were
taken I mean very simply it was a scene
of chaos a scene of Despair and a scene
of not having enough aid for everyone
that needs it uh Nasser hospital was
just reconstituted not long ago after an
operation in conun uh the hospital has
38 emergency beds and they already had
40 patients before the incident happened
so they were very quickly overwhelmed uh
over almost another 150 patients showed
up at the hospital and as I said it was
just very chaotic uh saw parents trying
to find children children who didn't
have parents um and it was very uh
moving but not necessarily in a good way
what we saw at the hospital yesterday
they were trying to clean up blood water
because they didn't have disinfectant so
it's just a very difficult very
difficult time for everyone and describe
to us who these patients were who were
being brought
in um the patients that I saw were very
much uh but look like innocent civilians
there were a lot of children um I saw
children as young as two years old and
you know really up to 17 18 years old I
saw children that were double
mutts um I saw the 2-year-old child I
saw they didn't know where her parents
were her grandmother had found her um
two girls I met were par ized I met one
family and talked to the mother three of
her children were impacted by what had
happened uh one was paralyzed one was
killed and one had no injuries at all um
but everybody had very much same thing
to say uh they went somewhere they
thought they would be safe and
unfortunately for them they were not and
they were taken somewhere where it
sounds like they can't be given proper
treatment yeah that's correct I mean I
think what they're basically doing is
basic wound management and basic pain
management um there doctors there have
the technical capacity to do more
including things like spinal fusion and
and other things to try to you know
mitigate the effects of back injuries
but what they don't have is the
equipment they don't have the
Prosthetics and they don't have enough
really of everything as I said they're
missing disinfectant uh fuel shortages
have been prevalent across Gaza and even
though we prioritized hospitals unfortun
fortunately there's not always enough
fuel to go around so it was also very
warm um as I said the the whole thing
was very difficult and you know talking
to the doctors they find it very
frustrating because they've trained to
be able to provide care for people like
this when these sort of incidents happen
and it's their people in many cases it's
their families or their extended
families uh but because of the
circumstances that they find themselves
and they're unable to provide the care
that we would
expect and we're talking about a dire
situation here at these hospitals how
long can this one keep operating in the
very basic uh situation that it's
operating
under I mean I think it'll keep working
as long as they can as long as they have
any supplies to try to treat people um
they were trying to expand the bed
capacity last night by setting tents up
outside in the parking lot uh just so
everybody could have a bed um I
mentioned the limited capacity in the
emergency room and you saw people or
patients really anywhere and everywhere
on benches on anything that they could
be laid on some on the floor um so the
doctors are doing their very best to try
to make it work um they were close to
being overwhelmed uh but they will
continue to do everything they can to
provide care for the people that come
there as well as the other hospitals
that are operating in
Gaza the other thing I wanted to ask you
was uh the tally at the moment Health
officials in Gaza say over
38,500 people have died in this war how
are they actually managing to put a
number on
that I mean I think it's not
particularly scientific um at a macro
level I think they do know everybody
that has lost their lives uh the details
of are they women are they children men
ages is is much harder to gather and in
many cases you know an apartment
building could have been uh could have
suffered from an attack or been bombed
or collateral damage and there's people
still trapped inside
so they go based on who they think is
inside and they do try to verify as we
move forward um but I think at the macro
level the numbers are close but at the
micro level at the granular trying to
figure it out you're not sure um you
know the one thing I would say that is
needed desperately in Gaza is a
ceasefire results in the return of the
hostages respit for people in Gaza and a
chance for them to begin rebuilding
their lives thank you very much for the
insights H Scott Anderson and uh good to
have you on the show
again thank you